Intra-Domain Routing:

The Internet is composed of many independent networks (called autonomous systems) that must
cooperate in order for packets to reach their destinations. This necessitates different protocols and
algorithms for routing packets within autonomous systems, where all routers are operated by the same
entity, and between autonomous systems, where business agreements and other policy considerations
affect routing decisions.
This assignment focuses on intra-domain routing algorithms used by routers within a single autonomous
system (AS). The goal of intra-domain routing is typically to forward packets along the shortest or lowest
cost path through the network.
The need to rapidly handle unexpected router or link failures, changing link costs (usually depending on
traffic volume), and connections from new routers and clients, motivates the use of distributed
algorithms for intra-domain routing. In these distributed algorithms, routers start with only their local
state and must communicate with each other to learn the lowest-cost paths.
Many intra-domain routing algorithms used in real-world networks fall into one of two categories,
distance-vector or link-state. In this assignment, you will implement distributed distance-vector and
link-state routing algorithms in Python and test them with a provided network simulator.


Link-State Routing
● Each router keeps its own link-state and other nodes’ link states it receives. The link state of a
router contains the links and their weights between the router and its neighbors
● When a router receives a link-state from its neighbor, it updates the stored link state and the
forwarding table. Then it broadcasts the link state to other neighbors.
● Each router broadcasts its own link state to all neighbors when the link state changes. The
broadcast is also done periodically if no detected change has occurred.
● A sequence number is added to each link-state message to distinguish between old and new
link-state messages. Each router stores the sequence number together with the link state. If a
router receives a link-state message with a smaller sequence number (i.e., an old link-state
message), the link-state message is simply disregarded.



Distance-Vector Routing
● Each router keeps its own distance-vector, which contains its distance to all destinations.
● When a router receives a distance vector from a neighbor, it updates its own distance vector and
the forwarding table.
● Each router broadcasts its own distance vector to all neighbors when the distance vector changes.
The broadcast is also done periodically if no detected change has occurred.
● Each router does not broadcast the received distance vector to its neighbors. It only broadcasts
its own distance vector to its neighbors.
